#summary An administrator's guide to using Photohunt (work in progress).
#labels Phase-Support,Phase-Deploy

= Introduction =

This guide details the steps needed to install Photo Hunt.


= Web Application =
  # Download and install the Java Runtime Environment (JRE 6) from [http://java.sun.com/javase/downloads/index.jsp Sun's website].
   * If you need help installing, visit [http://java.sun.com/javase/6/webnotes/install/index.html this] web page.  Select your operating system from the list. 
   * Preferably, this will be installed on your root directory (i.e. C:\Java) instead of inside the Program Files folder.
   * Set the JAVA_HOME environment variable to point to your Java installation (for example, c:\java\jdk1.5.0_08).
   * Add JAVA_HOME/bin to your PATH variable. 
  # Download and install Apache Tomcat 5.5.20
   * Download the core installation of Apache Tomcat 5.5.20 (apache-tomcat-5.5.20.zip) from [http://tomcat.apache.org/download-55.cgi here]. DO NOT download the "windows installer .exe" version, download the zip version instead.
   * Unzip the file to a directory, preferably the same directory as your Java installation.
   * Set the CATALINA_HOME environment variable to point to your Tomcat installation (why "Catalina"?  Beats me. But that's what it should be named).
   * Add CATALINA_HOME/bin to your PATH variable. 
   * Rename the included "sample-tomcat-users.xml" file to "tomcat-users.xml".  Copy this file to <tomcat>/conf/ (if it asks you if you want to overwrite the file, say yes).  This file contains a user name and a password.  It is recommended that you edit the XML file and change these values.
  # Start up Tomcat by invoking the start up command.
   * Windows users: Go to Start -> Run.  Type "cmd" and press enter.  At the prompt, type "startup".
  # Download the latest build of Photo Hunt.
   * Go to the [http://code.google.com/p/photohunt/ Photo Hunt] web page.
   * Click on the "Downloads" tab.
   * Download the latest Photo Hunt binary by clicking on the line.  You may download the source code if you intend to build it using Ant.
   * Unzip the downloaded file.
  # Deploy the war file to Tomcat.
   * Visit http://localhost:8080 and click on the Manager link in the top left corner.
   * Input the user name and password found in tomcat-users.xml.
   * Towards the bottom of the page, there is a section labeled "Deploy directory or WAR file located on server".  For the XML configuration file, click on browse and navigate to 
<Photo Hunt>/war/WEB-INF/web.xml, where <Photo Hunt> is the location of the unzipped binary download.  For the War or directory URL, click on browse and select <Photo Hunt>/war.  Then click on deploy.